---
author: Mackenzie Brooks
title: DCI 102 // Network Methodology 
date: October 22, 2019
---

# Activity 

In your group, select a topic for a network. It should be approachable for all members of your group. Game of Thrones? Sports? A novel or TV show?

# Your network

Before you begin, make a hypothesis about what your network will look like. 

# Nodes

Create a list of people on paper. Don't connect them yet. 

# Nodes
* What are the nodes of your network? 
* Is this a bi-modal or multi-modal network? Does it need to be? 

# Attributes

Create a list of attributes. 

# Attributes
* What are the attributes of your nodes? 
* How will/did you structure that information? 
* How can the attributes help you interpret your network?

# Edges/Ties/Links

Start making connections between nodes. Be systematic! 

# Edges/Ties/Links
* How are your nodes connected? What defines the connections?
* Do the edges have weights? Do they need weights? 
* Are the connections directional?

# Centrality
Examine your network to find centrality using node degree. 

# Centrality
* Who is most central? Least central?
* Does that match what you expect?

# Density
* Is your network dense or sparse?
* Do we remember how to calculate network density? 

# Results
* Does this visualization help?
* Is your hypothesis correct? Why or why not?
* What does the network show? Or obscure? 

# Warnings
What warnings should we heed from the readings? 

# Historian's Macroscope
> There is a tendency when using graphs to become smitten with one’s own data... Graphs have a tendency of making a data set look sophisticated and important, without having solved the problem of enlightening the viewer.

# Demystifying Networks
> Networks can be used on any project. Networks should be used on far fewer. 

# Demystifying Networks
> The edges are a layer of interpretation not intrinsic in the objects themselves.

# Network Theory, Plot Analysis 
> No, I did not need network theory; but I probably needed networks.

# Reminder 
How /= why

# methodology review
* Kindred Britain
* Belfast Group Poetry
* Mapping the Republic of Letters
* Six Degrees of Francis Bacon
* Preliminaries Project
* Prosop (in development)
* Social Networks and Archival Context (SNAC)
* Linked Jazz
* Signs @ 40 Cocitation Network

# methodology review 
* summarize the project
* what are the nodes, attributes, edges of this network?
* what analysis methods are available? (centrality, density, etc?)






